# plant-disease-detection
Every year, plant owners unintentionally kill their plants for a myriad of reasons. For professional farmers, it can simply be that there are too many plants to account for each one. However, for amateur or household gardeners, their plants often die because of a lack of knowledge surrounding plant care. With definitive assessments of the health of a plant, growers will be equipped to adequately care for their plants and take decisive action before leaf diseases progress to plant death. This understanding can lead to more plants living longer, thus improving the return on investment of amateur cultivators - and at an aggregated scale will increase oxygen production and allow for the beneficial effects of plants in urban and indoor environments. It can be expected that these environmental changes will positively impact quality of life. These effects prove how imperative it is to have a point-of-care, automated disease detector that is accessible to plant owners across the world. In efforts to help both amateur gardeners and experienced farmers understand the health of their plants, my research uses machine learning to classify the health of leaf images and make plant care accessible and understandable. Factors such as efficiency and accuracy were considered when determining the most effective detection model; I aimed to uncover the quickest model consistently achieving over 70% accuracy. I assessed the performances of support vector machines, k-nearest-neighbors, gaussian naive bayes, random forests, and multi-layer perceptrons. With these models, I experimented with hyperparameter optimization to have more comprehensive data to yield when determining the most effective model.
